The story of Malin Kundang comes from Padang, Sumatra
West. It is estimated that Malin Kundang came from the 16th century. Appearance
This story is because there are boulders resembling ships and figures
a man prostrating. That said, this story is believed to be only
It's just a myth, but according to local residents, the story is an incident
It is true about a child who disobeyed his mother and was cursed
become a stone. Until now, local people often hear voices
cries for forgiveness from the stone Once upon a time, in a remote village there was a family
fishermen on the coast of West Sumatra. Due to conditions
the family's finances are in dire straits, the father decides to
earn a living in a foreign country by wading through the sea
wide. Malin's father never returned to his hometown
so that his mother had to replace Malin's father to
earn a living. Malin is a smart kid but a little naughty
often chase the chicken and beat it with a broom. One day
when Malin was chasing the chicken, he tripped over a rock and
his forehead was hit by a stone. The wound becomes a scar
forehead and cannot be lost.
Because he feels sorry for his mother who is working hard
earn a living to raise himself. Malin decides
to go abroad in order to become rich after returning
to hometown later.
At first, Malin Kundang's mother did not agree, considering that
her husband also never came back after going abroad but
Malin kept insisting that he was finally willing to let Malin go
went abroad on a merchant's ship.
While on the ship, Malin Kundang learned a lot about
seafaring knowledge for experienced crew members.
In the middle of the journey, suddenly the ship that Malin was riding on
Kundang was attacked by pirates. All merchandise para
the merchant who was on the ship was seized by the pirates. Even
most of the crew and people on the ship
killed by pirates. Malin Kundang is lucky, he is
had time to hide in a small room covered by wood
so that they are not killed by the pirates.
Malin Kundang was adrift in the middle of the sea, until
finally the ship he was on was stranded on a beach.
With the remaining strength, Malin Kundang walked towards the
the closest village to the beach. The village where Malin was stranded
is a very fertile village. With tenacity and tenacity
At work, Malin over time managed to become a
the rich. He has many merchant ships with children
fruit numbering more than 100 people. After getting rich
Raya, Malin Kundang married a girl to be
his wife. The news of Malin Kundang who has become rich and
has been married to Malin Kundang's mother. Malin's mother
Kundang was grateful and very happy that his son had
succeed. Since then, Malin's mother every day goes to the dock,
waiting for his son who might return to the village
the page.
After a long time of marriage, Malin and his wife
carry out a voyage accompanied by the crew and bodyguards
a lot. Malin's mother who saw the arrival of the ship
the pier saw two people standing on the deck
boat. He was sure that the one who was standing was his son.
Malin Kundang and his wife.
Malin's mother headed towards the ship. Once close enough,
his mother saw the scar on the person's right forehead, the more
rest assured his mother that he was approaching is Malin Kundang.
"Malin Kundang, my son, why did you go so long without
send news?", he said while hugging Malin Kundang.
But seeing an old woman who is dressed shabby and dirty
hugged him, Malin Kundang became angry even though he
knowing that the old woman is her mother, because she is embarrassed
if this is known by his wife and also his men.
Getting such treatment from her son, Malin's mother
Kundang was very angry. He did not expect his son to be a child
disobedient. Not long after, Malin Kundang came back
went sailing and on the way came a terrible storm
destroying Malin Kundang's ship. In the midst of the chaos,
at the same time and in another place Malin Kundang's mother
is praying. Due to his mounting anger, he also
shouted "God! If he really is Malin my son, I CURSE
HE'S BECOME A STONE!" Right after that, Malin Kundang's body slowly became
stiff and over time finally shaped into a stone
coral. Until now, Malin Kundang Stone can still be seen at
a beach called Air Manis beach, south of the city of Padang,
West Sumatra (Soekardi, 2004)
Rumah Gadang or Rumah Godang is a traditional house
from Padang, West Sumatra. This traditional house has
existed since the time of the kingdoms. Rumah Gadang as a place to live together,
has its own provisions. Number of rooms
depending on the number of women living in it.
Every woman in the clan who has a husband
get a room. While the old woman and get a place in the room near the kitchen. Teenage girl
get a shared room at the other end (Diradjo, 2009).
In this application, the Tower House will be used as a
the background of the story so that the user can find out the traditional house
West Sumatra which was also used by Malin Kundang during his
his life
